>> CAITLYN: It looks like we'll
have another guest.
Someone I know intimately.
>> CANDIS: Kris.
Really?
>> KATE: Is she being good to
you?
>> CAITLYN: She's been fine.
>> KRIS: I definitely took it
personally.
>> JENNY: She tell you early on?
>> KRIS: No.
>> CAITLYN: I certainly said I
had gender issues and that I was
on hormones.
>> KRIS: I didn't know until all
of this.
I couldn't have given you the
definition of transgender.
>> CAITLYN: Let me finish, let
me finish.
>> KRIS: Until six months ago.
>> CAITLYN: Let me finish.
>> KRIS: Okay, you're being
stubborn, that's fine.
*
>> CAITLYN: There's really a lot
I want to get off my chest with
Kris, and I'm afraid if I don't
have it now, um, I'll probably
never have the conversation.
>> KRIS: Coming!
>> KRIS: Hello.
>> CAITLYN: Uh... you're ready
to go? All packed up?
>> KRIS: Yeah, just packing my
stuff up-- how are you?
>> CAITLYN: Did you have
fun last night?
>> KRIS: Thanks for last night!
Yeah!
>> CAITLYN: Before you go,
you got time?
>> KRIS: I got a little bit of
time.
>> CAITLYN: Um, so, your
impressions of everybody?
>> KRIS: It was really
interesting meeting everybody,
and just, you know, kind of
seeing, like, what kind of group
of girls you have around you.
I've had my friends my entire
life, some of them.
>> CAITLYN: Oh, I know.
>> KRIS: And you know?
They're everything.
>> CAITLYN: Yeah.
>> KRIS: And I think one thing
that I was thinking about you
is you never had friends.
>> CAITLYN: No.
>> KRIS: Ever.
And I would get so annoyed with
you when my girlfriends would
come over to the house for a
drink and you would just sit
there, and I would go, "Okay!"
I didn't get it.
>> CAITLYN: Well, 'cause I,
you know, I never...
>> KRIS: And now...
>> CAITLYN: It was always
frustrating to me because I
never, uh, never had felt like I
ever fit in any place until
recently, no, I...
>> KRIS: So, I think that for
you to have girlfriends makes us
really happy.
>> CAITLYN: I've never been more
happy in my life than I have in
the last six months.
>> KRIS: I know that you're
having, like, the greatest time,
but I think that...
you forget that there's also
things, you know, that are
really sad that are going on at
home.
>> CAITLYN: Like what?
>> KRIS: It's just, there's a
lot.
There's just, it's a lot and I
can't...
>> CAITLYN: What's-what's going
on at home that's sad?
>> KRIS: It's, you know,
Lamar's so sick, so sick.
>> CAITLYN: Oh, I know.
>> KRIS: And he's not really
getting better.
And it's really bad.
>> CAITLYN: Here.
>> KRIS: Thanks.
We spent a lot of time there,
and then Khloe got sick, and
then, you know, Kourtney's been
struggling with the whole Scott
thing, and... Kim's... has her
baby situation going on and, you
know, we're worried about trying
to get the baby turned around,
'cause right now he's breech,
and she's got her issues with
her whole uterus.
Kendall got sick, which she had
to go see, like, an infectious
disease doctor.
She caught something in Brazil.
So, you know, it's like,
everybody has a lot going on.
But I know that for you,
sometimes, you check out.
>> CAITLYN: Well, I do.
Um, I-I agree with that.
>> KRIS: You know, you are...
...the greatest person when
you're engaged and you're
present, but when you
disconnect, you're kind of out
of sight, out of mind.
And so, I just didn't want that
to happen to you and the kids.
I don't want to see you check
out.
>> CAITLYN: To be honest with
you, I do.
But, um, I'm a better person
today than I was a year ago.
I've learned a lot about myself.
>> KRIS: Right.
>> CAITLYN: I don't want our 23
years together to be a
"checking out" on it.
>> KRIS: Then that's everything.
>> CAITLYN: Yeah.
>> KRIS: I just don't want to
see you, um, disconnect from all
the kids.
>> CAITLYN: Well, that's what I
don't want.
>> KRIS: Yeah, I got to tell
you, when Kim brought me some of
your clothes that you were
throwing away...
>> CAITLYN: I know, I know.
I-I saw that.
>> KRIS: I was so sad because I
thought, "Wait a minute, I spent
23 years building this fabulous
wardrobe."
(chuckles): I was...
Who knew I was buying the wrong
(bleep)?
>> CAITLYN: I know that made--
>> KRIS: Oh, my God.
>> CAITLYN: I know.
Um, you know, for the last four
months, five months, I've had
lawyers, and people, and
everything going through name
change, but I finally got my
driver's license.
>> KRIS: Oh, you did?
What does it say-- Caitlyn?
>> CAITLYN: Yeah.
Caitlyn Marie--
>> KRIS: What's your--?
>> CAITLYN: Caitlyn Marie
Jenner.
>> KRIS: Oh, Marie, and it says
that on your driver's license?
>> CAITLYN: Yeah, yeah.
With, uh, gender marker F.
>> KRIS: Wow.
I didn't know they could do
that.
>> CAITLYN: You can go all the
way back to your birth
certificate and change that.
>> KRIS: Stop.
>> CAITLYN: And I did.
>> KRIS: You changed your birth
certificate?
>> CAITLYN: Yes.
Passport's in the process.
And it was kind of...
>> KRIS: That's kind of sad,
though.
>> CAITLYN: But I feel like,
I've come out this other side...
>> KRIS: Wait a second, does
this mean that he didn't exist?
>> CAITLYN: No.
>> KRIS: If you changed the
birth certificate?
>> CAITLYN: Well...
>> KRIS: Wait, was I ever
married?
Was I legally married?
>> JENNY: What's gonna happen
here?
>> BARTENDER: I'm gonna give you
a shot, and I'm gonna put my
boobs in your face.
(Jenny babbling)
(women cheering, whooping)
>> SCOTT: I'm just alone with my
thoughts every night and...
>> CAITLYN: Yeah.
>> SCOTT: It's a very tough
feeling, feeling isolated.
>> CAITLYN: Do you ever see a
reconciliation, you and Kourt?
>> KRIS: Security guards are out
front, and a guy comes
barreling into my office, and
he says, "Can I have a hug and a
kiss?"
>> CANDIS: Oh, my God.
That is so scary.
>> KRIS: Wait, was I ever
married?
Was I legally married?
>> CAITLYN: Yes.
>> KRIS (laughs): Oh, my God.
Wow.
>> CAITLYN: Yeah.
I would like to think of it as
that person still lives inside
me, and that today, I'm
a better person because of it.
And...
I have been fortunate
enough to kind of get rid of all
that bitterness and see a much
softer side of me come out,
which I think...
>> KRIS: It's a good thing.
>> CAITLYN: ...is really
important, you know?
>> KRIS: Yeah.
>> CAITLYN: Um...
>> KRIS: You just don't seem as
angry.
>> CAITLYN: I'm not.
>> KRIS: I think you had a lot
of that going on a little bit.
>> CAITLYN: Oh, I did.
I never was able to
have privacy to be myself.
>> KRIS: Oh.
>> CAITLYN: If you know what I'm
saying?
>> KRIS: Yeah.
>> CAITLYN: I think over the
last couple of years, you were
frustrated with me, I was
frustrated with myself.
And so, um, you know, I just
want to apologize, I think, for
a lot the times, the way I
acted.
Um, it didn't have to be that
way.
I think, going forward from
here...
>> KRIS: Mm-hmm.
>> CAITLYN: ...I would always
want you in my life.
Okay?
>> KRIS: First, I appreciate the
apology-- that's really nice of,
for you to say that.
And I, believe me, I get the "no
privacy" thing.
I don't have any privacy,
either, and Kim and Kanye moved
back in and I've got North
living there and...
>> CAITLYN: Yeah.
>> KRIS: So I get it.
And if I wanted to do something
that I didn't want anybody else
to know about, it would be very
difficult for me.
I have a hard time finding a
place to, you know, have five
minutes to myself, so I get
that.
And I get how frustrating that
would be.
So, when you put it like that,
that makes sense to me.
>> CAITLYN: Yeah.
I would hope that our
relationship going forward,
although very different, can be
a really good relationship.
That's my wish.
>> KRIS: And that's everything,
and that's why I'm here, I came
to check up on you.
'Cause I still love you and...
>> CAITLYN: All right.
>> KRIS: ...the kids adore you.
>> CAITLYN: Maybe at some point,
we'll renew our vows.
>> KRIS: What?
(Caitlyn laughs)
>> KRIS: Do I get another
diamond? Right--
>> CAITLYN: I don't want you to
get your hopes up.
(laughs)
I'll need a diamond, too.
>> KRIS: Oh, my God, this is
gonna get very expensive.
>> CAITLYN: It's, it's gonna get
very complicated and very
expensive.
>> KRIS: Yep.
>> CAITLYN: Neither Kris or I
were our best selves in our
relationship at the end.
When you're in a relationship,
there's a lot of things that go
wrong.
And for the things that I was
responsible for, uh, I have no
problem apologizing for those
mistakes.
By the way, I have to admit.
>> KRIS: What?
>> CAITLYN: You know, that
birthday present you got me, um,
that Chanel bag rocks it.
>> KRIS: I know.
>> CAITLYN: Where'd you...?
>> KRIS: That was a good one.
Saks.
>> CAITLYN: Khloe got me a very
nice bag, I told 'em I needed
bags, and I didn't get one golf
shirt.
I didn't get a pair...
>> KRIS: I can get you some for
Christmas.
>> CAITLYN: I didn't... Well,
uh, but the right ones now.
>> KRIS: I know, we never knew
what to get you.
(Caitlyn laughs)
I definitely look at this whole
situation a lot differently
after having spent some time
with these girls, and I
understand a little bit more
about the journey that Caitlyn's
on.
It's a very powerful place that
she's in.
Life is starting to be what I
feel like she's always wanted it
to be, and that makes me happy
too.
All right. Good-bye.
>> CAITLYN: I'll see you later.
Good-bye and have a good flight.
>> KRIS: Thanks for letting
me... in on your party.
>> CAITLYN: Okay, I'm glad you
got to meet everybody.
>> KRIS: Me too.
>> CAITLYN: Till then.
>> KRIS: All right.
>> CANDIS: Yes, I'm ready to
chow down.
I had a couple cocktails last
night with Kris Jenner.
She led me on a dark path.
(Candis sighs)
But she was... she was great.
It was nice to meet her.
You can tell why they have...
still have a little, like, thing
together.
You know what I mean?
>> KATE: They do, they do.
>> CANDIS: Yeah.
>> SERVER: Good morning, ladies.
>> KATE: I want johnnycakes.
>> CANDIS: Oh, gosh, my dad used
to make johnnycakes.
>> KATE: Yeah?
>> CANDIS: Yeah.
>> KATE: You're big on family,
right?
Would you like to have a family,
maybe kids?
>> CANDIS: Uh, yeah.
>> KATE: You would.
>> CANDIS: Yeah.
>> KATE: That's what I want to
see for you.
>> CANDIS: Well, I haven't found
the love that I want to find.
Yet.
I'm at the point now where I
desire to meet someone that I
can actually have a conversation
with, that I have something in
common with, somebody that I can
play Scrabble with.
And also someone that I could
eventually have a family with.
That can bring, you know, bring
that relationship to that next
level.
'Cause I'll just as soon sit in
my house with my dogs and, you
know, garden. (chuckles)
>> KATE: Excuse me, let's go
right there.
Someone who motivates me.
>> CANDIS: Yeah.
>> KATE: You've got to be
someone who motivates you, my
baby.
>> CANDIS: Yeah.
*
>> KATE: If having family is
something that you want...
>> CANDIS: I think that Kate is
right.
Things don't have to fall in a
certain order to make them
happen.
So, like, if I want a child, why
is it that I have to wait for
the perfect marriage or meeting
the right person?
>> KATE: This is a big step for
anyone.
>> CANDIS: It's huge for me.
>> KATE: Yeah.
>> CANDIS: I have a lot of good
things going on, you know?
I have a career that I love, I
have a family that I love, I'm a
stable, kind of grounded person,
and I think I would make a
really good parent.
And so, um, why should I have
to wait?
>> KATE: Now's your opportunity.
(bell dinging)
>> CAITLYN: We're ready to get
dirty!
Look at those little babies.
This is where they started off,
in the bucket.
>> CANDIS (laughing): Oh, gosh.
>> CAITLYN: And then they worked
to this pot.
>> CANDIS: Oh, look at those
guys.
>> MAN: This'll be a crawfish.
>> JENNY: He's alive, um, but
not for much longer.
I think we should pardon the
crawfish.
We're gonna pardon this guy.
Let him live?
Who wants the crawfish to live?
Raise your hands.
Who wants to eat him?
My friend, Bornstein.
>> COURTNEY: Gosh, so much work
just to eat.
>> CANDIS: Cait, that was a fun
night last night with Kris.
How did you feel about, like,
hanging out with her and...?
>> CAITLYN: After last night, I
had a very nice conversation
with her.
>> CANDIS: Oh, you did?
>> CAITLYN: This morning, before
she left.
You know, I-I apologized for,
you know, over the last three or
four years of our relationship,
you know, wasn't that good, and
I was just as frustrated in the
relationship as she was.
It was just good, you know, let
bygones kind of be bygones, and
I'm glad we got that meeting out
of the way.
>> JENNY: I'm thankful for that.
>> CHANDI: Which is great.
>> CANDIS: So great.
>> CAITLYN: Happy Thanksgiving
to all.
>> CANDIS: Happy Thanksgiving.
>> JENNY: Caitlyn acknowledged
to Kris that she was not
emotionally available during
their marriage.
She took responsibility.
That's kind of a "Hallelujah"
moment.
That's the kind of emotional
growth that her friends have
been rooting for.
My friends!
It's been, uh, it's been, uh, a
great... a great journey, and,
uh, I'm grateful to all of you.
So, uh, this is my little gift
to you.
I'm a little sad.
The road trip's just about over,
and we are going back to Los
Angeles for the Thanksgiving
break.
* So fair you well
My dear old friends
I never might see you more... *
Caitlyn really changed over the
course of this trip.
She took responsibility for some
of her mistakes.
She's becoming a more complex,
open person.
I just hope that the process of
self-discovery doesn't stop once
we're off the bus.
When we get back to L.A., I want
her to continue to become a
better version of who she is.
(whooping)
*
>> WOMAN: You got to do a shot.
>> CANDIS: What's your name?
(Candis laughs)
>> JENNY: What's gonna happen
here?
>> SHOT GIRL: I'm going to give
you and then put my boobs in
your face.
>> JENNY: Okay.
(whooping)
(Jenny imitates motor boat)
>> JENNY: That's what I'm
talking about!
(whoops)
(alarm chirping)
>> SCOTT: What's with all the
beeping?
>> CAITLYN: I think it's the
batteries.
I got to find it.
(chirping)
>> SCOTT: Ooh! This w...
>> CAITLYN: Shh! Shh. Shh.
(chirping)
>> WOMAN: In an independent
adoption, you're gonna have to
disclose that you're
transgender.
>> CANDIS: Ignorance,
transphobia.
I've been living my life this
way for so many years, I don't
even think about it anymore, but
apparently other people do.
>> CAITLYN: We are coming up on
Christmas, baby!
Look what I got!
>> JENNY: It's not just, like, a
little gingerbread... it's,
like, a gingerbread mansion.
>> CAITLYN: Guess who bought it
and sent it over to the house.
>> JENNY: It was not Scott
Disick.
>> CAITLYN: Not Scott Disick,
no.
Kris Jenner.
>> JENNY: Ms. Kris Jenner.
Really cool.
So, Caitlyn, my friend Marci
Bowers is coming in ten.
>> CAITLYN: Actually, I'm very
excited about meeting her.
>> JENNY: Good.
>> CAITLYN: Um, I feel a little
uncomfortable talking about that
issue.
>> JENNY: Dr. Marci Bowers has
been my friend for a dozen
years, and she is a surgeon who
performs SRS, or gender
confirmation surgery.
She's also a trans woman
herself.
Here's what I can tell you about
my own experience with-with
surgery.
One, it was really important for
me.
The sense of, "Oh, I'm finally
whole, I'm finally me."
At-at peace and at rest within
the body that I always wanted.
And I've never regretted having
surgery for one day, not one
hour, never.
>> CAITLYN: Yeah.
>> JENNY: The results were
remarkable.
I know this is maybe too much
information, but it's-it's
nothing to be ashamed of.
>> CAITLYN: Um, that's something
that, uh, right now, I feel a
little uncomfortable talking
about that issue.
>> JENNY: (sighs) When I've
talked to Caitlyn about dating,
she always says, "Well, I can't
imagine a man being in this
world and the kind of things
that, you know, the tabloids
would say about them."
Or she talks about how her kids
would be hurt.
>> CANDIS: Would it be harder
for you to be dating a man, as
opposed to a woman, on the kids
or vice versa?
>> CAITLYN: I think it might be
a little bit tougher on the
girls if it was, um, a guy.
Yeah, if I was dating some guy,
they would go, "Wow."
>> JENNY: I don't believe it.
I think that's... I think
that's... uh, I think that's an
excuse.
And when it comes to the
surgery, I know she's thinking
about it.
>> KRIS: Do you want to date a
guy or a girl?
>> CAITLYN: If I... If I went
through with my final surgery
and all of that.
>> KRIS: What?
>> CAITLYN: I wouldn't date a
guy with...
>> KRIS: Really?
>> CAITLYN: Yeah.
Yeah.
>> JENNY: Look, I don't care
whether she dates men, or she
dates women, or whether she
doesn't date anybody.
But she needs to find her truth.
And find the words to express
that truth.
Are you reluctant to learn more
about this?
>> CAITLYN: Um...
Um...
how do I answer that?
Uh... that, to me, is really
uncomfortable.
>> JENNY: I'm gonna ask you a
question, you tell me if this is
too personal.
You had this beautiful face work
done.
>> CAITLYN: Right.
>> JENNY: And when I first
walked through the door last
spring and I saw you, I was
like, "Holy cow, she's a
knockout!"
Um, that was more important to
you...
>> CAITLYN: For me, it was
important, my appearance and my
presentation was important.
And they continue to be, the
clothes, the this, the that.
>> JENNY: Mm-hmm.
>> CAITLYN: I know being a woman
is a lot more than that, and I
know for a lot of people in this
community, that's not that
important.
Just being themselves is
>> JENNY: You know, that's...
and-and actually, what you're
describing is, is certainly not
atypical of people that I know.
>> CAITLYN: Yeah.
>> JENNY: Um, for me, having SRS
was really important.
>> CAITLYN: More power to you.
>> JENNY: Um, and I know other
people who don't want the
surgery, or any surgery.
And I know other who want it
desperately and can't afford it.
>> CAITLYN: Probably the most
private thing for a transperson
to talk about is, you know,
like, way down there, what's
happening.
But, um, why not, Marci?
She is a transwoman, so of
course I would want to meet her,
I want to hear her story, uh,
but also, she's one of the best
surgeons out there for this type
of surgery.
>> JENNY: Well, anyway, so we'll
talk to Marci and, uh, see what
she has to say.
It's just, um, knowledge is
power.
>> CANDIS: Nice swing.
>> CAITLYN: That's all you got
to say, is "nice swing"?
(Candis laughs)
>> CANDIS: That's a big stick.
>> CAITLYN: Thank you.
>> CANDIS: That's a lot.
>> CAITLYN: Nobody's told me
that in a long time.
See the red flag?
>> CANDIS: Uh-huh.
>> CAITLYN: That's what we're
trying to get it in.
>> CANDIS: Oh, okay.
>> CAITLYN: See, soon as you...
(Candis laughs)
Soon as you... I knew it.
Soon as you got out here, you
were gonna go "I'm gonna kill
this."
There it goes, right down the
middle.
Isn't that amazing?
What did you think of the whole
trip, did you have fun?
>> CANDIS: Yeah.
I was actually doing a lot of
thinking on the trip about the
trajectory of my life as far as
family is concerned, you know?
It's like, you have such a full
life with your kids, and...
Adopting or fostering is so
appealing to me. You know?
>> CAITLYN: Yeah. I get that.
>> CANDIS: Damn it!
>> CAITLYN: Damn.
>> CANDIS: So, I don't really
know what to do.
Is it even possible for, like, a
middle-aged transwo...
(breaks off into laughter)
>> CAITLYN: To adopt?
>> CANDIS: To adopt?
>> CAITLYN: Look into it, find
out, I don't know.
>> CANDIS: I don't know.
>> CAITLYN: Your life would be
really full.
>> CANDIS: I'd like to have the
option.
>> CAITLYN: Yeah.
Actually, we should look into
that.
First of all, you'd make a great
mother.
For me, family is everything.
So, yeah, I think it's good
that she's, uh, thinking about
this kind of stuff.
I don't want her sitting around,
waiting for Mr. Right.
Maybe it's time for her to do it
on her own.
I'll be by your side every step
of the way.
(birds singing)
The last six months of my life
have been really enlightening
for myself.
But one thing I'm really not
comfortable with is-is talking
about this issue of, you know,
gender confirmation s... uh,
surgery.
But, um, I'm meeting with Marci
Bowers.
She's one of the best surgeons
out there for this type of
surgery.
Jenny s-set this up.
Uh, it's a good thing, I... uh,
she's a transwoman, of course I
would want to meet her.
Uh, but to be honest with you,
I... you know, I'm quite nervous
about this.
(knocking at door)
>> CANDIS: To have a family and
have kids, that's the dream.
>> KRIS: You would make a great
mommy.
You should go for it.
And you don't even have to get
pregnant, you little brat.
(Candis laughs)
>> CANDIS: Trying to go into
motherhood and being rejected by
office buildings and the
government... I don't know if I
can do that, you know what I
mean?
(birds singing)
(knocking at door)
>> CAITLYN: Come on in!
We got a lot to talk about,
let's sit down.
>> JENNY: Well, Caitlyn, I've
wanted you to meet Marci
forever.
She's obviously an expert in the
field of, um, gender
reassignment surgery.
Is that... is that the proper
term?
>> DR. MARCI: The politically
correct term is either "genital
reassignment surgery" or "gender
confirmation surgery."
>> CAITLYN: Okay.
Why do you think it is that the
media is fixated on the...
"the surgery?"
>> DR. MARCI: Well, this is what
we... this is what we say when I
speak to audiences around the
w... around the country...
>> CAITLYN: Yeah.
>> DR. MARCI: When is the last
time you passed a stranger on
the street and knew with 100%
certainty what their genitalia
looked like?
>> CAITLYN: Yeah. Right.
>> DR. MARCI: The fact is, you
make assumptions every single
day.
So all I do, in the work I
perform, is we just match up
the-the soul with the body,
basically, uh...
>> CAITLYN: What do you think is
the percentage of-of the
community, of the trans
community that actually goes
through the final surgery?
>> DR. MARCI: Few years ago, I
heard it was only 20%, and I
mean, it's expensive, to be...
and so it's about $25,000 out of
pocket...
>> CAITLYN: Yeah.
>> DR. MARCI: ...that somebody
has to pay.
>> JENNY: It's one reason why I
had to wait until I was 40.
Because I just, I just didn't
have...
>> DR. MARCI: It's a lot.
>> JENNY: ...I had been saving,
I'd been saving money my whole
life.
>> DR. MARCI: This surgery, the
male to female surgery...
>> CAITLYN: Right.
>> DR. MARCI: ...is easily as
much art as it is science.
So, in terms of genitalia,
everything that a man has, a
woman has as well.
And so, really, that's the basis
of the surgery, is that
embryologically, there is a
transition from female anatomy
to male anatomy.
And so when you're doing the
reverse, you just simply undo
all of the steps.
>> CAITLYN: Um, your sexual
experience... is it... still
there, is it gonna work?
>> DR. MARCI: The-the vast, vast
majority are able to orgasm.
>> CAITLYN: Oh, okay.
>> DR. MARCI: So, the clitoris,
even though it's reduced in
size from its old glory...
>> CAITLYN: Right, from it's old
glory.
>> DR. MARCI: ...um, is, um, is
still very, very sensitive.
>> CAITLYN: Yeah.
>> DR. MARCI: But...
>> CAITLYN: Which is
basically... the clitoris is the
head of the penis?
>> DR. MARCI: That's right.
>> JENNY: Post-surgery...
>> DR. MARCI: Yes.
>> JENNY: ...um, I had to get to
know my-my body over...
>> DR. MARCI: Yes, that's also
true.
>> JENNY: ...in a completely new
way.
>> DR. MARCI: As we say, as...
to make a musical metaphor, we
say it's like
"giving up the-the trombone and
picking up a violin."
(Caitlyn chuckles)
>> JENNY: Ah.
>> DR. MARCI: You know.
You... it's... it's still the
same music, but...
>> CAITLYN: Yeah, but different
instrument.
>> JENNY: What would you say to
someone who is thinking about
surgery, but isn't quite sure?
>> DR. MARCI: That's a great
question, Jenny.
>> CAITLYN: Yeah.
>> DR. MARCI: And it's something
that everyone has to wrestle
with individually, of course.
'Cause it-it is personal, and...
and, uh, you know, there are a
lot of people who never end up
having surgery, and yet they're
still, you know, men or women.
>> JENNY: Would surgery help
you?
>> CAITLYN: Um... possibly.
Yeah.
Possibly.
I have no idea what the future
holds, but it is really
interesting to talk about this
issue with a doctor that's
intelligent and obviously has
been doing this for years.
So, yeah, there's a lot of
questions to be answered in my
future.
>> CANDIS: Thanks for coming.
>> CAITLYN: No!
>> CANDIS: Oh, my God.
It's a little nerve-racking for
me.
>> CAITLYN: Is it really?
>> CANDIS: Yeah.
So, I've decided to take the
first steps to see, uh, if I can
get information in this adoption
process.
>> DIANE: Hi, nice to meet you.
>> CAITLYN: Nice to meet you.
>> DIANE: Come on in.
>> CANDIS: Thank you.
>> CAITLYN: All right!
>> CANDIS: There is this amazing
lawyer, and she works primarily
with the LGBT community.
>> CAITLYN: Thank you for
taking this meeting.
>> CANDIS: Yeah.
I was asking Caitlyn the other
day, "What are my options about
adoption as a trans woman
in my 40s?"
>> DIANE: Okay.
>> CANDIS: So I would love to
know about everything.
>> DIANE: So let's start tal--
There's a number of different
kinds of adoptions in
California.
So, you could do a foster
adopt, where you become a foster
parent.
Another way is doing an
independent adoption, where you
find a birth mother that's
willing to place her child with
you for adoption, and then the
last way, which is, I think, the
hardest, is an international
adoption.
>> CANDIS: Really, it's the
hardest?
>> DIANE: Well, 'cause you're
having to comply with not only
the laws of this country for a
home study, but the laws of
whatever country you choose to
adopt.
Most gays and lesbians who've
adopted from foreign countries
had to do so without being out
of the closet.
>> CANDIS: Wow.
>> DIANE: So, realistically...
>> CAITLYN: Oh, really?
>> DIANE: ...your best bet for
adoption, and your most
realistic, are doing it either
an independent adoption or a
foster adopt.
>> CANDIS: Have you ever worked
with transgendered... people?
>> DIANE: I have, I have not
done an independent adoption
with transgender people.
Difficulty you're gonna have in
an independent adoption is
you're gonna have to disclose
that you're transgender.
You've got to be matched with a
birth mother that says, "I want
my child raised by you."
>> CANDIS: Wow. I'm really nice!
>> DIANE: And there are probably
birth mothers out there who will
do it, but it's gonna take...
>> CANDIS: So it really is...?
>> DIANE: ...probably more
effort than if you were that
40-year-old heterosexual couple.
>> CANDIS: Right.
>> DIANE: You know, with the dog
and the white picket fence.
>> CANDIS: I thought going into
this that the hardest part of it
was going to be doing it, um,
alone, but I'm realizing that,
um, really, the hardest part of
this adoption process is going
to be being a trans woman and
all the hoops that I have to
jump over for that.
>> DIANE: If you have more
questions, let me know.
>> CANDIS: Okay, I will.
>> DIANE: But you know....
there's some challenges, but
there's some opportunities
there, as well.
>> CAITLYN: Thank you
for you time.
>> DIANE: My pleasure.
>> CANDIS: Hi.
>> CAITLYN: Hello!
(Danson barking)
>> CANDIS: Oh, Danson!
>> CAITLYN: Oh, my gosh!
The dogs are going crazy!
You're cooking!
>> CANDIS: I'm cooking!
>> CAITLYN: I love that!
Oh, my God, Chandi is in the
house!
>> CHANDI: Hi, baby!
>> CANDIS: Hi, honey.
>> CHANDI: Ooh, it smells
delicious in here.
>> CAITLYN: Hi, baby.
How are you doing?
>> CHANDI: I am great!
>> CAITLYN: I have so missed
you!
All right, let's get something
to eat-- I'm ready.
>> CHANDI: Mm-hmm.
Wow.
So what else has been going on?
>> CANDIS: Well, I went...
>> CHANDI: With Candis Cayne?
>> CANDIS: I went to this
lawyer...
>> CHANDI: Mm-hmm.
>> CANDIS: ...about adoptions.
>> CHANDI: So she provided you
with lots of information that
made you feel like it might be
something that you will be
interested in doing?
>> CANDIS: It almost felt more
daunting, because you still have
the birth mother being able to
know that you're trans and be
able to say yes or no to who you
are.
I can handle the idea of not
being with someone...
>> CHANDI: Mm-hmm.
>> CANDIS: ...and being rejected
by a guy, you know what I mean?
>> CHANDI: Mm-hmm.
>> CANDIS: But I don't think I
can handle trying to go into
motherhood and being rejected by
office buildings, and the
government and, uh, potential
mothers, like, I don't know if I
can do that, you know what I
mean?
>> SCOTT: You're wearing a purse
now, you can't do this.
>> CAITLYN: I'll get the light
end.
>> SCOTT: See, this is why being
a Jew is so much better.
All you got to do is carry a
menorah.
>> CANDIS: For a trans woman to
adopt, you have to disclose that
you're trans.
I'm just a little discouraged.
>> KRIS: It's not easy.
If that's in your heart, you
should just go for it.
>> CANDIS: I don't think I can
handle trying to go into
motherhood and being rejected
by office buildings and the
government and, uh, potential
mothers, like, I don't know if I
can do that.
Me being an undesirable person
to have their kids be adopted to
because I'm trans, it's hard for
me t-to think that way because
I've been living my life this
way for so many years I don't
even think about it anymore.
But apparently, other people do.
It's irritating, because if I
was born female to begin with,
none of this would ever even be
a consideration.
>> CAITLYN: Is it difficult?
Absolutely.
But it's not an excuse not to do
it.
>> CHANDI: You're allowing
yourself to be placed in that
space with the "what ifs."
You're going after something
like being a mom, that is so
important for a little person.
To be able to have that support.
>> CAITLYN: And wouldn't she
make a great mom?
>> CHANDI: A great mom, so I
don't want to hear you being
Negative Nancy, uh, behind this.
If you're gonna look into it,
and go into it, you need to go
into it with an open mind, and
not focus on any of the
obstacles that you're gonna run
into.
>> CANDIS: Ignorance,
transphobia-- a lot of times,
it's not the person that's
wanting to beat you up, it's the
behind the scenes, finding out
who and what you are, and not
allowing you to get the bank
loan, or not allowing you to get
the job, or not allowing you to
adopt the children.
So, it's like, once again,
another thing that I have to
deal with because I'm trans.
>> SCOTT: How the hell are you?
>> CAITLYN: I'm good, let's get
a Christmas tree.
>> SCOTT: Who better than a Jew
to go Christmas shopping with?
>> CAITLYN: I agree.
>> SCOTT: Hand hug!
>> CAITLYN: Hand hug, look out!
>> SCOTT: It's almost Hanukkah!
Coming through, got a package,
people!
Your hands are much softer now.
>> CAITLYN: Well, I just used
lotion.
>> SCOTT: Lot of moisturizer.
>> CAITLYN: See, you need a guy
around to help lift things.
>> SCOTT: You're still strong!
>> CAITLYN: It's just a chick
thing, I know.
>> SCOTT: But you're still
strong, right?
>> CAITLYN: No, I'm not.
One thing I've learned on this
trip is sometimes, I have the
ability to kind of check out.
>> SCOTT: I haven't talked to
you all night.
>> COURTNEY: Are you ignoring
him?
>> CAITLYN: No, I'm not ignoring
him-- he's over there!
>> SCOTT: I've spent more time
with them than I have with you.
>> CANDIS: Scott!
>> JENNY: I think he's upset.
>> CAITLYN: Life's too short.
I really wanted to, uh, reach
out to Scott 'cause I don't want
him to be alone during the
holidays-- that's the worst
thing that can happen.
>> SCOTT: That's kind of like
what Kris gets, right?
>> CAITLYN: Uh, she gets even
bigger than that.
Anyway, yeah, no, so I got the,
um, invitation to the, uh,
Christmas party.
>> SCOTT: Well, of course.
No? Was that--?
>> CAITLYN: You just don't know.
>> SCOTT: Really?
Well, same with me.
>> CAITLYN: Well, but, uh, yeah,
but how are you doing with the
whole holiday season?
>> SCOTT: Well, I mean, it's a
little tough, I mean, you know,
obviously without having my
parents and anybody on my side
of the family, and not really
knowing if I'm going to spend it
with Kourtney and the kids.
>> CAITLYN: Yeah, yeah.
>> SCOTT: But, it's a little
hard for me, because I don't
want people to, like, take pity
on me, either, and they're just
inviting me because I know,
they know that all my family is
dead.
You know, I just want people to
invite me because they want to,
not because they feel bad for
me.
>> CAITLYN: Wow.
>> SCOTT: So it's hard, in that
way, and I'm obviously not
drinking or doing drugs, so I'm
just alone with my thoughts
every night, and it's tough.
>> CAITLYN: Yeah.
>> SCOTT: It's a very tough
feeling, feeling isolated.
>> CAITLYN: Yeah.
>> SCOTT: Well, sometimes, I
just want to like--
>> CAITLYN: Do you ever see a
reconciliation, you and Kourt?
>> KRIS: I called 911.
What's your emergency?
I have an intruder in my house.
What does he look like?
And I'm thinking, "What do you
mean what the (bleep) does he
look like?"
>> SCOTT: I'm just alone with my
thoughts every night, and it's a
very tough feeling, feeling
isolated.
>> CAITLYN: Yeah.
>> SCOTT: You know, sometimes, I
just want to like--
>> CAITLYN: Do you ever see a-a
reconciliation, you and Kourt?
>> SCOTT: I mean, you know, I, I
think that that would be, like,
the dream.
End of the day, I would love to
see us work everything out and
be in love again, and watch
movies together, and be
intimate and love each other
and be best friends.
But I also don't want to just
rush into something that doesn't
make sense.
>> CAITLYN: I understand that.
Um...
(sighs)
You just got to do the best
you can, get through it, and
look forward to next year, you
know, it's a whole new year.
>> SCOTT: Yeah.
>> CAITLYN: And I'm so happy
that you're sober and you're not
doing any drugs and this and
that, 'cause that's... that's
like, by far, the most important
thing.
>> SCOTT: I know.
>> CAITLYN: I'm glad to see
you're doin' well.
>> SCOTT: Yeah, and I'm glad to
see you're doing well.
>> CAITLYN: You know what?
Hey, we'll get through the
holidays.
>> SCOTT: Listen, we're always
going through something.
>> CAITLYN: What we need is a
Christmas tree.
>> SCOTT: Christmas tree it is.
>> CAITLYN: Let's get into the
holiday spirit!
>> SCOTT: Holiday spirit.
>> CAITLYN: Ho! Ho! Ho!
>> SCOTT: Let's grab this big
old tree.
>> CAITLYN: Wait a second, now I
got my coffee here...
>> SCOTT: You... you're wearing
a purse, now, you can't do this.
>> CAITLYN: Well, I'll get the
back... I'll get the light end.
You get that end.
>> SCOTT: Okay.
See, this is why being a Jew is
so much better.
All you gotta do is carry a
menorah.
>> CAITLYN: Okay.
>> SCOTT: It weighs a quarter
of a pound.
>> CAITLYN: All right, set her
down right there.
>> SCOTT: Right here, yeah?
Bravo, bravo, tango, tango, 46A,
we're coming in.
>> CAITLYN: Kris's gingerbread
house came.
(Scott exhales sharply)
>> CAITLYN: Did you get one of
those?
>> SCOTT: No.
But... I think that's more of,
like, a fun thing for girls.
>> CAITLYN: Maybe that's...
maybe that's what...
>> SCOTT: She really, she really
accepts you as a woman now.
>> CAITLYN: Maybe I'm on her
good list.
(alarm chirping)
Better than last year.
>> SCOTT: Hoo!
You ain't kidding!
>> CAITLYN: Yeah.
(chirping continues)
>> SCOTT: What's with all the
beeping?
>> CAITLYN: Um, I got back from
my trip...
(chirping continues)
... and, um, I think it's the
batteries.
(chirping continues)
>> SCOTT: Oh, my God, does that
not drive you nuts?
>> CAITLYN: But I haven't gone
through the house.
But now I can't shut it off.
(chirping continues)
>> SCOTT: You have to sleep with
that?
>> CAITLYN: Uh, I-I sleep with
this right now, so...
(chirping continues)
>> SCOTT: Oh, my God.
>> CAITLYN: There it goes again.
>> SCOTT: It gets me every time.
All right, let's go take it out
and unplug it until you get
batteries, then.
>> CAITLYN: All right.
>> SCOTT: I don't want a lovely
lady like you, uh, hurting
yourself here.
>> CAITLYN: I know.
(chirping continues)
So, I'm pretty sure, just pull
that little thing out...
(Scott chuckles wryly)
Should've done that a long time
ago.
>> CAITLYN: ...and stick it
in...
(chirping continues)
...pluses and minuses.
Sort of...
>> SCOTT: There we go.
(loud beeping)
>> CAITLYN: Oh, no.
(beeping stops)
>> SCOTT: Damn it.
>> CAITLYN: The hell did you do?
>> SCOTT: No, no, that was just
a check.
Yep, she works.
Just testin', testin' the
waters.
>> CAITLYN: It's not gonna...
Where's the next one?
>> PRODUCER: Do you see any kind
of change in Cait?
>> SCOTT: I see a dramatic
change.
And, not visually, so much, but
really, just emotionally.
>> CAITLYN: I appreciate you
helping me out.
>> SCOTT: Anytime.
I mean, I really believe when
Caitlyn was Bruce, he was really
shut off, and angry, and...
just wasn't happy, and now that
she can be who she really wants
to be, it's a whole different
person, and I feel a real
connection.
(chirping, Scott snickers)
>> CAITLYN: Actually, if you
were taller...
>> SCOTT (laughing): I wouldn't
need this ladder.
I gotta get myself a pair of
heels, I guess.
>> CAITLYN: Here we go.
(chirping continues)
>> SCOTT: Oh!
>> CAITLYN: That was another
one.
We gotta find it.
(chirping continues)
>> SCOTT: I'm huntin' wabbit...
>> CAITLYN: Shh!
(chirping continues)
>> SCOTT: Oh!
>> CAITLYN: Shh!
>> SCOTT: This w...
>> CAITLYN: Shh! Shh!
(chirping continues)
>> CAITLYN: Wow.
>> SCOTT: Insanity.
>> CAITLYN: Which way...
That was far away.
>> SCOTT: I think it's downtown,
Julie Brown.
>> CAITLYN: Bad battery.
(chirping continues)
Bad battery!
>> SCOTT: Making all that noise.
(chirping continues)
(birds singing)
>> KRIS: Hello?
Anybody home?
>> CANDIS: I'm here!
>> KRIS: Hi, Candis!
>> CANDIS: Wow!
>> KRIS: Crazy.
>> CANDIS: You look amazing!
>> KRIS: Who knew? California,
it's, like, 37 degrees outside.
So I got you guys little
Christmas cookies.
Cheers, guys.
>> CANDIS: Here you are. Cheers.
>> CAITLYN: Ho, ho, ho!
Merry Christmas!
Honestly, I think Kris and I are
probably the best place we
possibly could be right now.
She actually sent me an
invitation for Christmas Eve
party, her biggest party of the
year.
So I thought, why not invite
her to my house?
>> KRIS: I brought you that
gingerbread house, and you're
not supposed to leave it in the
Saran...
...you have to, like, embrace
the holidays.
>> CAITLYN: Don't drop it.
>> KRIS: It's okay, I got it.
(Candis laughs)
So, can I tell you guys what
happened to me?
>> CAITLYN: What?
>> KRIS: Today?
>> CAITLYN: Ooh, today, what?
>> KRIS: My heart is beating so
fast.
So, I'm at my house, I was
sitting in my office, on a
business call, my grandson is
sleeping in his crib, security
guards are out front, and a guy
comes barreling into my office
with a backpack.
My home office.
>> CAITLYN: How did he get in
the gates?
>> KRIS: Somebody let him in.
And he says, "Can I have a hug
and a kiss?"
>> CANDIS: Oh, my God, that is
so scary.
>> KRIS: Security guards are out
front, and a guy comes barreling
into my office.
And he says, "Can I have a hug
and a kiss?'
>> CANDIS: Oh, my God, that is
so scary.
>> KRIS: And I go...
(laughs weakly) "I'm on a call."
And he said, "Oh, okay, well,
I'll come back for the hug, I'll
be right back, I'm gonna pay my
Uber driver."
>> CANDIS: Shut up.
>> KRIS: He walks out the front
door, and I called 911.
"What's your emergency?"
"I have an intruder in my
house."
"What does he look like?"
And I'm thinking, "What do you
mean, what the... does he
look like?
Just get somebody over here!"
(Candis chuckles)
>> CAITLYN: How did the security
guy let him in?
>> KRIS: I don't know.
>> CANDIS: So, he left...?
>> KRIS: The guy?
>> CANDIS: Yeah.
>> KRIS: Oh, he's arrested, he's
in jail right now.
>> CANDIS: Oh.
>> KRIS: So, anyway, come to
find out, he walked all over the
house looking for me.
He went into my kitchen, he went
through the family room.
Now, my granddaughter usually
plays in the afternoons in the
family room.
>> CANDIS: Oh, my God.
>> CAITLYN: That's scary.
>> KRIS: And then, I mean, I
have one, now, I was scared to
death.
Like, we didn't know where he
was.
>> CAITLYN: To be honest with
you, I would walk around the
house, half the people in that
house I didn't even know their
name.
Who the heck they were.
>> KRIS: They were your
children.
(Candis laughs)
>> CAITLYN: Oh, were they?
Were they my children?
>> KRIS: They were your kids.
>> CAITLYN: Oh.
>> KRIS: Yeah.
>> CAITLYN: Ah.
>> CAITLYN: Let's decorate a
tree.
Ho, ho, ho!
>> CANDIS: Are these, like, all
the kids' stockings?
>> KRIS: Burt, Casey... ooh!
Penelope.
Mason, Bruce... oh, there's no
more Bruce.
>> CAITLYN: He's gone.
>> KRIS: Sorry! He left.
>> CANDIS: I can't even imagine
shopping for Christmas, for a
family the size of yours.
>> KRIS: Oh, you have no idea.
>> CANDIS: That's kind of like,
the... the dream, when you're
growing up, is to have a family,
and have kids and I thought, you
know, I would try to see what
the process would be like for a
transwoman to try to adopt.
So we went and actually met
with this family, uh...
>> CAITLYN: Attorney.
>> CANDIS: ...attorney...
>> CAITLYN: Who was great.
>> CANDIS: ...who was, like,
works with adoption, and
stuff...
>> KRIS: Oh, really? In L.A.?
>> CANDIS: In L.A., yeah.
She said adoption, you have to
disclose that you're trans to
the adoptive parents, and I get
that, you know, but it's just
like another thing that...
>> KRIS: Yeah.
>> CANDIS: ...dealt with.
So, I don't know, I'm just a
little discouraged.
>> KRIS: Well, I don't think, I
mean, I think the whole process
is discouraging.
I mean, the whole thing.
You know...
>> CANDIS: Just the whole thing.
>> KRIS: ...I feel like, I mean,
I've been dealing with Kim for
the last couple years, and her
just... you know, the process
of, like, trying to get
pregnant, and then going through
in vitro, and having all the
issues she had.
>> CANDIS: Right.
>> KRIS: And then, friends of
mine who don't have anybody that
they even date, they can't catch
a break, either.
>> CANDIS: It's not a trans
thing, it's a human thing.
>> KRIS: It's not easy, in any
shape or form.
I think if you're... if that's
in your heart, you should just
go for it.
Because it brings unbelievable
joy.
>> CANDIS: Talking to Kris, it
made me realize that it's not
just a trans problem.
A lot of female, cis women, have
these issues, too.
Sometimes, maybe, life doesn't
turn out the way you think it's
going to, but you're gonna have
to figure out how to move on
and change your expectations and
your trajectory of your life.
I mean, I just feel like I have
so much to give to a little one,
you know?
>> KRIS: Yeah.
You would make a great mommy.
I could see that, though.
You really would.
I think you should go for it.
And you don't even have to get
pregnant, you little brat.
(Candis laughs)
>> KRIS: Oh, that's a good idea.
>> CAITLYN: Ta-da!
Fixed!
It's only in tape, but it's
good!
>> KRIS: I love it.
>> CAITLYN: Off to Mammoth.
(Ella whoops)
(laughing, whooping)
>> CANDIS: No one has ever
challenged Caitlyn Jenner to
anything that she hasn't stepped
up to the plate.
>> ELLA: Kiss.
Oh!
(laughs)
>> CANDIS: "Presidential hopeful
Ted Cruz opposes equality for
transgender people because he
thinks trans kids will molest
his daughters."
>> ELLA: Ugh.
>> JENNY: Republicans.
Your people. They don't like us.
>> CAITLYN: They're not my
people if they're against this
issue.
Captioning sponsored by
BUNIM-MURRAY PRODUCTIONS